Initial draft of identity docs (#5133)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/self-managed/identity/what-is-identity.md

description: "Identity is the component within the Camunda 8 stack responsible for authentication and authorization."
---

> Identity is responsible for authentication and authorization within the Camunda 8 stack. Identity functions differently in Orchestration clusters and in Console and Web Modeler. For more information on these differences, see the Self-Managed [reference architecture](/self-managed/reference-architecture/reference-architecture.md#orchestration-cluster-vs-web-modeler-and-console).

Reviewer: 🔧  we should indicate these are different identity components indeed
```suggestion
Identity components are responsible for authentication and authorization within the Camunda 8 stack. There are two different identity components in the stack, one as an integral part of the Orchestration cluster and spanning across orchestration clusters used for Console and Web Modeler access management. For more information on these differences, see the Self-Managed [reference architecture](/self-managed/reference-architecture/reference-architecture.md#orchestration-cluster-vs-web-modeler-and-console).
```

Author: I've tried to clarify this further in the latest update! Once there is a place in the docs for Orchestration cluster docs vs Everything else docs, this page will mostly be able to go away, and I hope this distinction will feel much more separate.

> Identity is the component within the Camunda 8 stack responsible for authentication and authorization. Identity functions differently in Orchestration clusters and in Console and Web Modeler. For more information on these differences, see the Self-Managed [reference architecture](/self-managed/reference-architecture/reference-architecture.md#orchestration-cluster-vs-web-modeler-and-console).

Reviewer 2: If we want to start to shift away from the "component" language, we can do that here:

"Identity is responsible for authentication and authorization within the Camunda 8 stack."

Or something similar.

description: "Identity is the component within the Camunda 8 stack responsible for authentication and authorization."
---

> Identity is responsible for authentication and authorization within the Camunda 8 stack. Identity functions differently in Orchestration clusters and in Console and Web Modeler. For more information on these differences, see the Self-Managed [reference architecture](/self-managed/reference-architecture/reference-architecture.md#orchestration-cluster-vs-web-modeler-and-console).

Reviewer 3: 💭 I'm still wondering if this is the right wording but I don't feel strongly enough that we should block the merging. Identity is responsible really for authorization and for managing the assignments to different entities i.e. groups. 

The authentication is handled via Spring in the `basic` setup or via Spring + the provider in cases of OIDC, we do have a new authentication layer/module but its not really exposed.
